So let's have another look now, at the
immutable sequences type section of the
documentation, and paste the link into
Google. Now this table shows all the
operations that are supported for mutable sequences.
The only mutable sequence type that's
built into Python is the list, but there
are other types in the standard library.
Now note that this table is only showing
operations for mutable sequences. If we
scroll up and look at early in this
document, here under common sequence
operations, you can see the operations
that apply to all sequences - so that
includes strings and tuples, as well as lists.
Now we've seen some of these
operations in the last section, and again
they apply to both mutable and immutable
sequence types. I didn't cover index and
count but we'll be looking at them,
shortly, and I also didn't cover min and
max, but it's fairly obvious what they do.
So let's see some examples, so we'll
switch back to the code. I'm gonna start
by creating a new Python file called number_lists.
Let's start by typing even equals, left square bracket
2, 4, 6, 8 and right square bracket to close
it off. The next line, odd equals left square
bracket 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 right square bracket. So we've got two
lists here: even contains even numbers,
and odd contains odd numbers. If we use
min and max, we should get 2 and 8
for even and 1 and 9 for odd, so let's
try that. So print left parenthesis min
left parenthesis even, and the two closing
right parentheses. We'll do the same
but for max, so print left parenthesis,
max left parenthesis even and the two
right parentheses. We'll do the same for
our odd as well, so print min odd - the
same for max as well, for odd.
Alright, so let's run the program now. No surprises there - 2 and 8 and 1 and 9 is the output. So moving on,
len returns the number of items in the
sequence. For a string, that would be the
number of characters in the string. For a
list though, it's the number of items.
So let's try that out.
Line nine, print left and right
parentheses - add an extra line break
there, an extra line to separate the
output. Line ten, print left parenthesis
len left parenthesis even. Then line 11,
we'll do the same for odd, so print, left
parenthesis len left parenthesis odd,
like so. Let's run this, and you see we
get 4 for the length of even. That's
because it contains four numbers,
and 5 for odd - no surprises because it
contains five numbers. Now our list's aren't very
good at seeing what count does, because
each number only appears once in the lists.
We can use a string, instead, to
demonstrate this, so let's see how many
times the letter s appears in
Mississippi. So adding a line there, line
break between our content, our output, and line 13, I'm going to type print left
parenthesis, double quotes Mississippi - if I could
spell it right - mi ss iss i ppi
closing double quote then dot count,
parentheses double quotes and s in the
double quotes, close off the line.
Let's run this now, and you can see we've got
the answer 4 there. I used a single
character here - the letter s, as you can
see - but we could use longer strings
and get the count of that. So let's change
the s to iss. Let's run that. This time
we've got the result 2. The string iss
appears twice in Mississippi. Now, note
that a character will only be used once
when counting. You may look at the string
and think that issi appears twice, but
that would involve re-using the middle
letter i. So as we can see, when I change
this program to search for issi, or to
count rather, issi - run that. You can see
we get the answer 1 and not 2. We saw
the index method in the last section,
when we searched the shopping list. At the
time I said that the code could be made
more efficient, so I'm going to come back
to index soon, in this section. Before
that though, in the next video, we'll look
at the table that I started the video
with - the operations we can perform with
mutable sequence types. See you in the
next video.